# threat-detect
    Threat detect is an analyst's best friend. With the fall of the Soviet Union, and the rise of religious and ethnonational terrorism, threats to the American homeland have evolved from a clearly defined set of enemy actors to an amorphous, shadowy threat matrix with unknown actors. Intelligence agencies and law enforcement have the unenviable task of identifying potential threats and interceding before nascent plots can be executed. In recent years, the problem has become one of finding a needle in a haystack. 
    Since the attacks of 2001, a growing body of scholarly work has been advanced identifying factors that correlate with an increaed liklihood of an individual becoming sufficiently radicalized to carry out an attack. It should be noted that there is a very big difference between individuals espousing radical ideologies and those preparing to carry out an attack.
    Threat Detect scans social media (e.g. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) for keywords and phrases that may indicate troubling content. The post in question and the user are logged and flagged. Threat Detect then scans the social networks of the individuals looking for other flagged individuals. Individuals who receive multiple flags will be run against a database of known radicalization correlates. Not all correlates are equal predictors. For instance converting to Islam is a predictor, but much weaker than being a second generation immigrant with poor social skills. The correlates are weighted and a threat score is generated. The identity of individuals with high threat scores will be forwarded to the appropriate agencies for further review. Threat Detect is designed to work in tandem with existing investigative methods and should never be used alone to initiate law enforcement action. 
    Threat Detect is also trainable. Individuals who generate high threat scores, but upon further invetigation prove to not be planning an imminent attack, will be noted by the user. Similarly, after each terrorist attack, hindsight threat scores will be generated. If new correlate patterns emerge, Threat Detect will adapt the weighting and composition of its threat score factors. 
    Further down the line, Threat Detect Modeling will allow law enforcement agencies to come up with a threat score across individuals for groups, such as Al Qaeda. Users will then looks for changes in the threat score given certain condition changes, for example a drone strike removing the leadership. Such a tool will help intelligence and law enforcement agencies identify the most effective course of action in reducing a group threat score. 
